Add kubectl gs FAQ and Troubleshooting page (#1219)
giantswarm/docs: src/content/ui-api/gsctl/migrate.md

---
linkTitle: Migration to kubectl gs

> title: Migrating from gsctl to kubectl gs

Reviewer: Should we have `kubectl-gs` or `kubectl gs` here?

Author: Done

> description: gsctl is a CLI for the deprecated Giant Swarm Rest API. As you move from the Rest API towards the Management API, you'll have to say goodby to gsctl and embrace kubectl-gs, step by step. This page should help you make the transition smoothly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: gsctl is a CLI for the deprecated Giant Swarm REST API. As you move from the REST API towards the Management API, you'll have to say good bye to gsctl and embrace kubectl-gs, step by step. This page should help you make the transition smoothly.
```

weight: 1
menu:
  main:
    parent: uiapi-gsctl
user_questions:
- What commands in kubectl-gs replace what gsctl commands?

> - How can I replace gsctl with kubectl-gs?

Reviewer: Should we call it `kubectl gs` or `kubectl-gs`?

Author: I settled for kubectl-gs when it comes to the tool's name and `kubectl gs ...` only when it's about invoking a command.

owner:
  - https://github.com/orgs/giantswarm/teams/team-rainbow
last_review_date: 2021-11-23
---

> # Migrating from `gsctl` to `kubectl gs`

Reviewer: Same here

Author: Done

> `gsctl` is a CLI for Giant Swarm's proprietary Rest API, which is no longer developed. To make full use of clusters and apps with Giant Swarm, users have to migrate to the [Management API]({{< relref "/ui-api/management-api/" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`gsctl` is a CLI for Giant Swarm's proprietary REST API, which is no longer developed. To make full use of clusters and apps with Giant Swarm, users have to migrate to the [Management API]({{< relref "/ui-api/management-api/" >}}).
```

| gsctl create kubeconfig | [kubectl gs login]({{< relref "/ui-api/kubectl-gs/login.md" >}}) |
| gsctl create nodepool   | [kubectl gs template nodepool]({{< relref "/ui-api/kubectl-gs/template-nodepool.md" >}}) |
| gsctl list clusters     | [kubectl gs get clusters]({{< relref "/ui-api/kubectl-gs/get-clusters.md" >}}) |
| gsctl list nodepools    | [kubectl gs get nodepools]({{< relref "/ui-api/kubectl-gs/get-nodepools.md" >}}) |
| gsctl list releases     | [kubectl gs get releases]({{< relref "/ui-api/kubectl-gs/get-releases.md" >}}) |
| gsctl login             | [kubectl gs login]({{< relref "/ui-api/kubectl-gs/login.md" >}}) |
| gsctl show cluster      | [kubectl gs get clusters]({{< relref "/ui-api/kubectl-gs/get-clusters.md" >}}) |
| gsctl show nodepool     | [kubectl gs get nodepools]({{< relref "/ui-api/kubectl-gs/get-nodepools.md" >}}) |
| gsctl show release      | [kubectl gs get releases]({{< relref "/ui-api/kubectl-gs/get-releases.md" >}}) |

Below is some additional information on commands that don't have a direct replacement.

| gsctl command | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| gsctl completion | `kubectl-gs` does not yet provide support for shell completion. |

> | gsctl delete cluster | To delete a cluster, use `kubectl delete` on the cluster's main resource. |

Reviewer: AFAIK on AWS you have to delete each resource manually

Author: Changed the wording so it matches all cases.

Can't really go into the details in this places. We seem to need a `delete` command. See https://github.com/giantswarm/roadmap/issues/409

> | gsctl delete nodepool | To delete a node pool, use `kubectl delete` on the node pool's main resource. |

Reviewer: Same here
